README.md, before:

# Versionary API

**Under Construction**

This project demonstrates a way to manage versioned entities in a database with a serverless architecture. It uses the
Go programming language with the following technologies:

* [AWS CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/)
* [AWS DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/)
* [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/)
* [AWS API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/)
* [Gin Web Framework](https://gin-gonic.com/)

## Learning Resources

* [Go Programming Language](https://go.dev/) Home Page
* [Learning Go](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/learning-go/9781492077206/), by Jon Bodner (highly
  recommended for learning modern, idiomatic Go)
* [Effective Go](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go): a brief overview of the language
* [Go Language Standard Library](https://pkg.go.dev/std) package documentation
* [AWS Go Language SDK](https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/) Home Page
* [AWS Go Developer Guide](https://aws.github.io/aws-sdk-go-v2/docs/)
* [AWS Go API Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/)
* [AWS Go Lambda Functions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-golang.html)
* [AWS Go Lambda API Proxy](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-go-api-proxy)
* [AWS DynamoDB Main Package](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/service/dynamodb)
* [AWS DynamoDB Expression](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/feature/dynamodb/expression)
* [AWS DynamoDB AttributeValue](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/feature/dynamodb/attributevalue)

## Dependencies

The following dependencies are required to build the Versionary API:

```bash
go get github.com/aws/aws-lambda-go/events
go get github.com/aws/aws-lambda-go/lambda
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/config
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/ssm
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/dynamodb
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/dynamodb/types
go get github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-go-api-proxy
go get github.com/gin-gonic/gin
go get github.com/voxtechnica/tuid-go
go get github.com/voxtechnica/user-agent
go get github.com/voxtechnica/versionary
go get golang.org/x/exp/slices
```

To update all the dependencies to their latest or minor patch releases, run the following command from the project root:

```bash
go get -u ./...
go mod tidy
```

Once you've done this, you can test *all* the dependencies by running the following command from the project root:

```bash
go test all
```

That can take a while. If you prefer, you can test just this project:

```bash
go test ./...
```

## Developer Workstation Setup

1. Install the [AWS Command Line Interface](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html).
2. Configure your AWS IAM credentials using `aws configure`, supplying your access key, secret key, and default region.
3. Install the [Go Language](https://golang.org/doc/install).
4. Install an IDE, such as [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/), [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/),
   or [IntelliJ IDEA](http://www.jetbrains.com/idea/). VSCode with the Go plugin is excellent value (free!), but the
   JetBrains IDEs (GoLand or IntelliJ IDEA with the Go plugin) offer more. In addition to outstanding refactoring
   support, they actually teach you to write better code as you use the tools.

## Initial Environment Setup

1. Create an S3 bucket for Lambda functions (e.g. `versionary-lambdas`), used to package the CloudFormation template.
2. Provision and configure services for sending messages, as described for
   the [Message Service](./doc/MessageServiceSetup.md).
3. Create a bootstrap admin bearer token, as described for the [User Service](./doc/UserServiceSetup.md).

## Release process

A CloudFormation template ("infrastructure as code") is used to create and manage most of the following infrastructure
elements. Exceptions include DynamoDB tables (created using an operations command), SSL Certificates, Route 53 DNS
records, etc.

* GitHub code repository
* CloudFormation template
* API Gateway HTTP Proxy
* Versionary API Lambda Function
* DynamoDB Tables (created using an operations command)

You can use different git branches (e.g. qa, staging, prod) to manage the code running in different operating
environments. Once you have code ready for release to a particular environment, you can use the following steps
to deploy the code to that environment:

1. Ensure that you have the desired git branch checked out locally, and that all tests pass.
2. Run `make build` to build the operations command.
3. Run `cmd/ops/operations -env <env> -action create-tables` to create any missing DynamoDB tables in the environment.
4. Run `make deploy env=[qa|staging|prod]` to build release artifacts and deploy the CloudFormation template.
5. Test the updated code running in the specified environment.

Commit message:

User package, Ops commands (WIP)

README.md, after:

# Versionary API

**Under Construction**

This project demonstrates a way to manage versioned entities in a database with a serverless architecture. 
It uses the Go programming language with the following technologies:

* [AWS CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/)
* [AWS DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/)
* [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/)
* [AWS API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/)
* [Gin Web Framework](https://gin-gonic.com/)

## Learning Resources

* [Go Programming Language](https://go.dev/) Home Page
* [Learning Go](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/learning-go/9781492077206/), by Jon Bodner (highly
  recommended for learning modern, idiomatic Go)
* [Effective Go](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go): a brief overview of the language
* [Go Language Standard Library](https://pkg.go.dev/std) package documentation
* [AWS Go Language SDK](https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/) Home Page
* [AWS Go Developer Guide](https://aws.github.io/aws-sdk-go-v2/docs/)
* [AWS Go API Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/)
* [AWS Go Lambda Functions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-golang.html)
* [AWS Go Lambda API Proxy](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-go-api-proxy)
* [AWS DynamoDB Main Package](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/service/dynamodb)
* [AWS DynamoDB Expression](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/feature/dynamodb/expression)
* [AWS DynamoDB AttributeValue](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/feature/dynamodb/attributevalue)

## Dependencies

The following dependencies are required to build the Versionary API:

```bash
go get github.com/aws/aws-lambda-go/events
go get github.com/aws/aws-lambda-go/lambda
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/config
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/ssm
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/dynamodb
go get github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/dynamodb/types
go get github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-go-api-proxy
go get github.com/gin-gonic/gin
go get github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp
go get github.com/spf13/cobra
go get github.com/voxtechnica/tuid-go
go get github.com/voxtechnica/user-agent
go get github.com/voxtechnica/versionary
go get golang.org/x/exp/slices
```

To update all the dependencies to their latest or minor patch releases, run the following command from the project root:

```bash
make dependencies
```

Once you've done this, you can test *all* the dependencies by running the following command from the project root:

```bash
go test all
```

That can take a while. If you prefer, you can test just this project:

```bash
go test ./...
```

## Developer Workstation Setup

1. Install the [AWS Command Line Interface](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html).
2. Configure your AWS IAM credentials using `aws configure`, supplying your access key, secret key, and default region.
3. Install the [Go Language](https://golang.org/doc/install).
4. Install an IDE, such as [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/), [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/),
   or [IntelliJ IDEA](http://www.jetbrains.com/idea/). VSCode with the Go plugin is excellent value (free!), but the
   JetBrains IDEs (GoLand or IntelliJ IDEA with the Go plugin) offer more. In addition to outstanding refactoring
   support, they actually teach you to write better code as you use the tools.

## Initial Environment Setup

1. Create an S3 bucket for Lambda functions (e.g. `versionary-lambdas`), used to package the CloudFormation template.
2. Provision and configure services for sending messages, as described for
   the [Message Service](./doc/MessageServiceSetup.md).
3. Create a bootstrap admin bearer token, as described for the [User Service](./doc/UserServiceSetup.md).

## Release process

A CloudFormation template ("infrastructure as code") is used to create and manage most of the following infrastructure
elements. Exceptions include DynamoDB tables (created using an operations command), SSL Certificates, Route 53 DNS
records, etc.

* GitHub code repository
* CloudFormation template
* API Gateway HTTP Proxy
* Versionary API Lambda Function
* DynamoDB Tables (created using an operations command)

You can use different git branches (e.g. qa, staging, prod) to manage the code running in different operating
environments. Once you have code ready for release to a particular environment, you can use the following steps
to deploy the code to that environment:

1. Ensure that you have the desired git branch checked out locally, and that all tests pass.
2. Run `make build` to build the `./api` and `./ops` commands for local use.
3. Run `./ops -env <env> -action create-tables` to create any missing DynamoDB tables in the environment.
4. Run `make deploy env=[qa|staging|prod]` to build release artifacts and deploy the CloudFormation template.
5. Test the updated code running in the specified environment.
